and for a special perspective I'm
pleased to welcome ahud Almer he was
Israel's prime minister from 2006 to
2009 and mayor of Jerusalem for 10 years
until 2003 Mr alard welcome to DW in a
recent interview you claimed that the
Hamas Command Center was not in fact
under the alifa hospital but in Kan
Yunis in southern Gaza I want to quote
you there you said that is where they
have the leadership they are hiding they
have the bunkers they have the command
position
they have the launching pads what is
your evidence for
that we'll find we'll show you the
evidence I hope the Israeli Army will
reach out there and will provide you the
evidence now you could see that
underneath the shifa hospital there were
bunkers there were weapons and they uh
they were uh taking the uh hostages into
uh shifa and uh we have evidence that
some of the hostages which came alive to
shifa were killed there so uh uh you
don't really expect that uh we will
provide you with videos of the bankers
underneath hunis but we have the
evidence and we have the uh data that uh
I think make it quite reliable and uh uh
hopefully within days we'll reach out
there and uh you all will be able to see
why then the focus on the alifa hospital
if hunis is really the bigger military
Target not the only from shifa hospital
they were launching uh the missiles to
Israel they were using the shifa
hospital as a hiding place for many of
the killers and the uh terrorists and
they use the uh underground for the
hiding weapons and uh the terrorists the
leaders ran away when we came close to
shifa they escaped for obvious reasons
but um that doesn't make shifa into a
legitimate um place it's definitely more
than just a hospital by the way it was
built by Israelis it was designed by
Israeli Architects but the bankers were
built by
Hamas and so from what I gather we are
bound to see Israeli troops expand their
operations to the South that is
precisely where gazin from the north
were told to seek safety where are the
people who live there in the South plus
the over 1 million displaced now
supposed to go that even Han Yunis and
the area surrounding it is not safe
anymore look uh I don't think that I
need to uh and I don't know to be honest
with you I'm not in the government now
I'm not in the general staff of the
Israeli Army and I can't share with you
the specific military planes for the
expanded Israeli operation we'll do
everything as we did we try to do in the
north of Gaza to avoid any unnecessary
collateral damage and that's why we are
it takes time we try to be as careful we
can and uh we hope to be able to reach
out the centers of where the terrorist
leaders are hiding without affecting the
civilians that move
South uh this is it's not a game it's a
very difficult and complex and painful
and
bloody and we try to uh avoid the
necessary uh uh consequences to uh
noninvolved civilians but you must
understand one thing and I tell you on
the basis of liong lifelong experience
and very good connections with all of
the Arab countries that surrounding the
state of Israel to this day there is
nothing that they want more of Israel
than to destroy Hamas Hamas is obviously
the enemy of Israel but it's the enemy
of all the moderate Arab countries
they are scared that if Hamas will
prevail the stability in those countries
may be jadiz in a very serious way and
they are anxious that Israel will
continue what we are doing now which is
to destroy and Isis which is part of the
area here which threatens the stability
of the entire region and this is the
only not only be in Israel's interest to
uh to to destroy Hamas I understand that
but there has been widespread
condemnation of the blockade of Gaza
that came as a result or that
intensified as a result of the October
7th attack the humanitarian crisis and
the number of civilians killed in this
war and we're seeing this week again
thousands of protesters in cities around
the world almost every day demanding a
ceasefire so I I want to know from you
is Israel at risk of losing
international support over how it is
conducting this war as someone who is
not directly
involved they unfortunately uh you are
correct in describing the U uh reaction
in different parts of the world against
the state of Israel on the 7th of
October they all demonstrated in favor
of Israel and in the meantime as it
turns out and uh since life is not a
linear line uh they Focus now on the
pictures coming from Gaza and they
forgot the Israelis that were beheaded
and tortured and and raped and uh
slaughtered um only um 45 days ago now I
think that there is certainly a danger I
can't ignore it that the international
public opinion will not be patient
enough and tolerant enough to understand
that we have to live with the
consequences of having Hamas here and
that it has come to a point where we
just can't continue as it was we have to
get rid of them however I think that
what the Israeli government has to do
and this is not something I don't speak
for the government as you understand I
don't represent the government the
government is probably on an entirely
different direction but I speak for what
I think most Israelis want we need to do
the following things number one we have
to declare that at the end of the battle
the military battle we will pull out
from Gaza we don't want to occupy Gaza
it's not in our interest we don't want
to be there we want to destroy the Hamas
and move back to the international
border that's number one number two I
think that it is important it's
essential that uh an intervention in
military force um European International
uh military force will take over Gaza
when Israel pulls out no Arab no
Palestinian will ever take over from
Israel so if we don't want Terror to
immediately return back into Gaza we
have for a period of a year a year and a
half to have an international
intervention Force just as we did in the
south of Lebanon after the war in
Lebanon in 2006 which was very helpful
and which created an a quiet area for 17
years yeah under the current leadership
sorry to interrupt you there under the
current leadership do you think what
you're laying out is an attainable
goal this is something that needs to be
achieved uh needs to be uh uh accepted
by President Biden and the European
leaders uh Rai sunak and president
macron and Chancellor Schultz and all
the rest of the European leaders and I
think that there is a good chance that
they will understand that there must be
an international Force because if Israel
is not to stay there and don't want to
stay there and the International
Community doesn't want Israel to stay
there and if Palestinians or Arabs will
not come over so what then so number one
as I said I think there should be an
international Force for a period of
interim period of a year a year and a
half that will help create a restore and
a civil Administration that now will
disappear because of the radication of
Hamas but at the same time and this is
perhaps the most critical and important
thing the Israeli government has to
declare today and make a public
commitment that at the end of the
military battle we will immediately
embark on negotiations for peace based
on the creation of a Palestinian state
in both the West Bank and Gaza does
Israel's current leadership want peace
though not only for Israelis for
everybody in the
region yeah I if you ask me whether the
present Israeli government is ready to
say this or that to work for it or to
declare it or to make any commitment
about it I don't think so I have to be
very honest with you that's why I think
that this government has to be removed
today I think that this government has
failed completely in providing security
of the state of Israel and at the same
time is unable and un unprepared to make
the necessary accommodation
in order to create the corridor that can
lead us from where we are now all the
sides into a
potential meaningful peace negotiations
for the creation of a Palestinian state
that will live alongside the state of
Israel on the basis of the plans that
I've have submitted to the Palestinians
or anyway within the framework of
acceptable principles that must be
worked out between us and the
Palestinians unfortunately
I just want to remind you miss flish if
I can just one thing briefly in
200 in 2008 I presented the Palestinians
with a peace plan based on the creation
of a Palestinian State on the basis of
two of 67 borders and of having the Arab
side of Jerusalem as the capital of the
Palestinian state of having the holy
Basin of Jerusalem uh controlled by an
international Trust of five nations the
Saudis Jordan the Palestinians Israel
and America under the uh offices of the
United Nations security Council and the
solution of the refugee problem within
the framework of the Arab leak peace
initiative which was originally accepted
in 2002 and was reconfirmed in
2007 this is a peace plan which was
presented to the Palestinians
unfortunately then they didn't say yes
and they fil away yeah this is
the Secretary General of the United
Nations has also said that they will not
take care of the situation in Gaza after
this war and I'm really sorry we'll have
to leave it there we're running out of
time Mr aled great speaking to you thank
you so much for taking the time to
coming on to
byebye